---
title: Wireless Communications
linkTitle: EEN552 (C)
date: '2021-01-01'
type: book
weight: 20
---

<!--more-->

## Course overview

The aim of this course is to foster and promote knowledge on wireless communication systems and skills/competencies in the design and performance 
analysis of wireless communication systems. The course will cover a wide range of subjects including the basic principles, design and performance analysis of cellular systems, the modeling of radio propagation in the wireless channel and multiple access techniques (FDMA, TDMA, CDMA).

## What you will learn

- Differentiate, categorize, and compare different wireless communication technologies.
- Identify the characteristics of wireless devices and specify their functionalities.
- Propose communication solutions based on wireless technologies.
- Evaluate and compare the performance of practical wireless communication solutions.

## Meet your instructor

{{< mention "MichalisMichaelides" >}}

## Course content

- Session 1: Introduction in the technological field of wireless communications. 
- Session 2: Basic principles, design and performance analysis of cellular systems
- Session 3-4: Modeling of radio propagation in the wireless channel 
- Sessions 5-6: Multiple access techniques (FDMA, TDMA, CDMA)
- Session 7: Outlook on future technologies
- Sesison 8: Practical applications and code development.

## Teaching methodology

Lectures, group discussion and problem solving, and project-based learning

## Assessment

- Midterm exam (30%)
Will include combination of numerical exercises and open-ended theoretical questions.
- Project (20%)
Group project assigned to the students during the semester.
- Final written exam (50%)
Will include combination of numerical exercises and open-ended theoretical questions.

