---
title: Advanced System Theory and Automatic Control
linkTitle: EEN513 (C)
date: '2021-01-01'
type: book
weight: 20
---

<!--more-->

## Course overview

The aim of this course is to foster and promote knowledge on non-linear systems and control and skills/competencies in complex system control design. The course covers the technological field of non-linear control systems theory, covering modeling approaches, stability analysis, and control design. 

## What you will learn

- Analyze non-linear systems and assess their stability.
- Design control solutions for common non-linear systems.
- Evaluate the performance of various non-linear control design methods.
- Validate practical solutions to control of non-linear problems in industry.

## Meet your instructor

{{< mention "admin" >}}

## Course content

- Session 1: Review of linear systems and control
- Session 2: Introduction to non-linear systems
- Session 3: Introduction to non-linear control systems
- Session 4: Performing stability analysis of non-linear systems using a variety of methodologies (Lyapunov stability, passivity, input-output stability etc.) (Part 1)
- Session 5: Performing stability analysis of non-linear systems using a variety of methodologies (Lyapunov stability, passivity, input-output stability etc.) (Part 2)
- Session 6: Performing stability analysis of non-linear systems using a variety of methodologies (Lyapunov stability, passivity, input-output stability etc.) (Part 3)
- Session 7: Design control mechanisms for non-linear systems
- Session 8: Practical applications of non-linear control.

## Teaching methodology

Presentations, group discussions, case studies.

## Assessment

- Midterm exam (30%)
Will include combination of numerical exercises and open-ended theoretical questions.
- Project (20%)
Group project assigned to the students during the semester.
- Final written exam (50%)
Will include combination of numerical exercises and open-ended theoretical questions/