---
title: Advanced Digital Signal Processing I
linkTitle: EEN512 (C)
date: '2021-01-01'
type: book
weight: 10
tags:
  - Compulsory Courses
---

<!--more-->

## Course overview

The aim of this course is to foster and promote knowledge on the most important theoretical and practical aspects of advanced digital signal processingand skills/competencies in process analysis of discrete-time signals. The most important knowledge will be developed throughout the course is the analysis of signals and systems with the help of discrete-time Fourier series and transform, and extraction of quantitative parameters for the evaluation of their properties. Significant knowledge is gained about the Discrete Fourier transform and its various applications such as the analysis of design of digital filters of finite and infinite (FIR and IIR) impulse response. With this knowledge, students will be able to address real world problems and design digital filters that are widely used in applications. This course covers theoretical knowledge and applications in the form of computer projects in MATLAB or similar environment.

## What you will learn

- Analyze discrete-time signals and systems.
- Extract quantitative parameters to identify signal properties
- Design digital filters of finite and infinite (FIR and IIR) impulse response.
- Analyze practical systems from various industrial sectors 

## Meet your instructor

{{< mention "TakisKasparis" >}}

## Course content

- Session 1: Fourier series of discrete time signals
- Session 2: Discrete Fourier Transform and applications
- Session 3: Design of digital filters of finite impact response (FIR)
- Session 4: Design of digital filters of infinite impact response (IIR)
- Session 5: Design of filters meeting given specifications
- Session 6: Analysis and design in practical systems
- Session 7: Programming applications in MATLAB environment (Part 1)
- Session 8: Programming applications in MATLAB environment (Part 2)

## Teaching methodology

Presentations, group discussions, and case studies.

## Assessment

- Midterm exam (25%)
Will include combination of numerical exercises and open-ended theoretical questions.
- Computer Projects (35%)
- Numerical and theoretical exercises (10%).
- Final written exam (30%)
Will include combination of numerical exercises and open-ended theoretical questions.

