---
title: Medical Imaging
linkTitle: EEN532 (C)
date: '2021-01-01'
type: book
weight: 20
---

<!--more-->

## Course overview

The aim of this course is to foster and promote knowledge on various medical imaging methods and skills/competencies in design and analysis of medical imaging solutions. 
This course aims to describe the most important theoretical and practical parameters of the various imaging methods. The course examines the physical principles of the main types of medical imaging such as ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging, X-rays, CT, SPECT, PET, optical coherence tomography (OCT), and electrical impedance tomography (EIT).
The most important knowledge that will be developed through the course is the elaboration and understanding, separation and use of the above concepts. With this knowledge, students will be able to provide solutions to medical imaging problems as well as analyze the data that emerge from them.

## What you will learn

- Differentiate, classify and compare medical imaging such as ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging, X-rays, CT, SPECT, and PET.
- Analyze applications of the above imaging systems.
- Critically distinguish the difference of the above imaging modalities using quantitative comparison factors.
- Identify and recommend important requirements for the approval of medical devices

## Meet your instructor

{{< mention "ChristakisDamianou" >}}

## Course content

- Session 1-2: Physical principles of the main types of medical imaging such as ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging, X-rays, CT, SPECT, PET, optical coherence tomography (OCT), and electrical impedance tomography (EIT).
- Session 3-4: Ultrasound will focus on topics such as waves (transverselongitudinal), ultrasound speed calculation, wavelength, A-Mode, B-Mode, M-Mode, acoustic impedance, reflection, refraction, scattering, attenuation, absorption, transducer design, ultrasound technical errors, ultrasonic doppler, calculation of intensity mechanical and thermal index, ultrasonic components (linear-phase etc.), distinctive ability (axial / lateral), ultrasound imaging phantoms for diagnostic ultrasound, and ultrasound wave equations. 
- Session 5-6: In magnetic resonance imaging, emphasis will be given to issues such as magnetization creation, Larmor equation, tuning, magnetic resonance imaging, T1 and T2 relaxation, Hardware, Fast spin Echo, Frequency and phase coding, 2-dimensional display, slice selection, Kspace, fast sequences, fMRI and the physical properties of various specialized sequences. 
- Session 7: X-rays, X-ray tube construction, X-ray interaction with tissues, Xray spectrum, Fluoroscopy, Digital subtraction angiography, Mammography, Osteoporosis Measurement (DEXA method), Dental applications, Linear accelerators, SPECT (γ camera), PET (Cyclotron), Approval of medical devices (CE, FDA), Application for clinical trials. 
- Session 8: Finally, optical coherence tomography (OCT) and electrical impedance tomography (EIT) will be reviewed.

## Teaching methodology

Presentations, group discussion, and laboratory demonstrations.

## Assessment

- Midterm exam (30%)
Will include combination of numerical exercises and open-ended theoretical questions.
- Exercises (20%)
Written assignements throughout the course.
- Final written exam (50%)
Will include combination of numerical exercises and open-ended theoretical questions.