---
title: Digital Communications
linkTitle: EEN511 (C)
date: '2021-01-01'
type: book
weight: 10
tags:
  - Compulsory Courses
---

<!--more-->

## Course overview

The aim of this course is to foster and promote knowledge of digital communication and skills/competencies in the design and performance analysis of the major parts of a modern digital communication systems. The course covers the design and performance analysis of the major parts of a modern digital communication system. It also discusses some fundamental limits for transmission of digital information over noisy channels.

## What you will learn

- Analyze complex modern digital communication systems.
- Identify and summarize common problems in existing digital communication setups.
- Propose and formulate solutions for common problems related modulation and noise in digital communication systems.
- Evaluate and assess the performance of proposed solutions related to modulation and noise in digital communication systems.

## Meet your instructor

{{< mention "MichalisMichaelides" >}}

## Course content

- Session 1: Digital modulation schemes (Part 1)
- Session 2: Digital modulation schemes (Part 2)
- Session 3: Performance analysis of digital communication systems in the presence of noise (Part 1)
- Session 4: Performance analysis of digital communication systems in the presence of noise (Part 2)
- Session 5: Optimum signal detection methods
- Session 6: Optimum receivers for AWGN channels
- Session 7: Source encoding and channel capacity, and error correcting codes.
- Session 8: Practical examples and real-life problems.

## Teaching methodology

Lectures, group discussion for problem solving, seminars.

## Assessment

- Midterm exam (40%)
Will include combination of numerical exercises and open-ended theoretical questions.
- Final written exam (60%)
Will include combination of numerical exercises and open-ended theoretical questions.
