---
title: 'Electronic System Design'
linkTitle: Z304015 (E)
date: '2021-01-01'
type: book
weight: 20
tags:
  - Elective Courses
---

<!--more-->

## Course overview

The aim of this course is to understand and master the general methods and skills of electronic system design. The course covers systematic to study of integrated operational amplifiers, power semiconductor devices, new semiconductor sensors, new integrated circuits, data communication technology, power system design, filter design, Multisim circuit simulation technology, electronic system design example analysis.

## What you will learn

- Master the ability of comprehensive design of general electronic system.
- Analyze of relevant cases of integrated circuits and semiconductors,
- Understand the application of integrated circuits and semiconductors in automotive electronics and industrial automation control system,
- Identify and summarize common problems in electronic system design.
- Evaluate and assess the performance of proposed solutions related to electronic system.

## Meet your instructor

{{< mention "MingyuGAO" >}}

## Course content

- Session 1: Operational amplifiers
- Session 2: Amplification circuit design (part 1)
- Session 3: Amplification circuit design (part 2)
- Session 4: Power semiconductor devices 
- Session 5: Power system design
- Session 6: Semiconductor sensor and filter design
- Session 7: MCU / ARM (part 1)
- Session 8: MCU / ARM (part 2)
- Session 9: A / D and D / A conversion circuit design (part 1)
- Session 10: A / D and D / A conversion circuit design (part 2)
- Session 11: Communication circuit design
- Session 12: Circuit simulation technologies based on Multisim
- Session 13: Examples of integrated electronic system design.

## Teaching methodology

Lectures, group discussion for problem solving, collaborative learning, independent learning

## Assessment

- Assignments (40%)
Written assignements throughout the course.
- Final examination （60%）
Will include combination of numerical exercises and open-ended theoretical questions.