---
title: Microelectronic Device Evaluating and Modeling
linkTitle: Z304029 (E)
date: '2021-01-01'
type: book
weight: 20
---

<!--more-->

## Course overview

The aim of this course is to provide students with a basic understanding of semiconductor device modelling. The course covers the background theory of device modelling, passive and active device model methodology, and device models’ application in advanced EDA tools. It also discusses the characterization method of semiconductor devices for modelling.

## What you will learn

 Analyze the compact model structure
 Identify the role of EDA tools in the modelling process
 Collect the semiconductor characteristics with measurement techniques
 Construct a model with the model description language of Verilog-A
 Construct a model for passive and active device modelling with modern EDA tools
 Evaluate and assess the performance of proposed models

## Meet your instructor

{{< mention "JunLIU" >}}

## Course content

 Session 1: Introduction of semiconductor device modelling.
 Session 2: Establish a model with Verilog-A.
 Session 3: Passive device modelling of CMOS process (part 1).
 Session 4: Passive device modelling of CMOS process (part 2).
 Session 5: Active device modelling of CMOS process (part 1).
 Session 6: Active device modelling of CMOS process (part 2).
 Session 7: Bipolar device modelling of BiCMOS process.
 Session 8: Modeling of MOSFET Devices in CMOS Technology
 Session 9: Semiconductor Device Testing and Modeling Based on Agilent IC-CAP.
 Session 10: Passive and active device modelling of the compound process.
 Session 11: On-wafer measurement techniques of RF semiconductor devices.
 Session 12: Devices and Models in Compound Semiconductor Processes.
 Session 13: Quality assurance of device model and PDK.

## Teaching methodology

Lectures, group discussion for problem-solving

## Assessment

 Class assignment (40%)
Will include a combination of device model analysis and open-ended theoretical questions.
 Final assessment (60%)
Will include a combination of device model analysis and open-ended theoretical questions
