---
title: College English
linkTitle: G111001
date: '2021-01-01'
type: book
weight: 10
tags:
  - Compulsory Courses
---

<!--more-->

## Course overview

The aim of the college English is to expand the international cultural vision of students, enhance the daily and academic communication skills of cross-cultural, and enable students to master the language tool of English to promote the study of graduate students more conveniently. The course covers the daily and academic communication in English, academic English writing and speech. 

## What you will learn

- Develop an international cultural vision and the literacy for intercultural communication. 
- Develop comprehensive English application ability, so that they can use the professional dictionary to read English literature, read English academic papers.
- Write a variety of practical styles and academic papers in English, help students master the norms, language and format of practical style writing; master the normative and accurate language of academic paper writing; familiar with the mode of international academic English writing; Cultivate internationally universal academic ethics.
- Develop the ability to communicate more smoothly with others in English. Students will be able to attend international conferences, publish academic opinions, public speaking and other communication and communication skills will be further improved

## Meet your instructor

{{< mention "XiaoqinZhou" >}}

## Course content

- Session 1 the pronunciation of all vowels and consonant phonetic symbols. 
- Session 2 learn to spell words and sentences correctly; review the use of basic tenses in English and their application in spoken English.
- Session 3 the Academic English Lecture 1: "Identifying key issues." Understand the importance of academic speech; how to evaluate a good academic speech; the difference between daily conversation and speech; stage phobia. 
- Session 4 Academic English Lecture 2: "Planning a Presentation". Explain the eight steps of academic presentation preparation, focus on explaining and practicing the determination of the speech objectives; how to study the audience; how to focus on selected topics and live demonstrations. 
- Session 5 Academic English Lecture Unit 3: Outlining a Presentation. Learn the importance and significance of the speech outline; learn how to write an outline of the speech. 
- Session 6 Academic English Lecture Unit 4: "Structuring a Presentation". Learn to write a speech. How to construct the introductory part of the speech; how to construct the main part of the speech; how to end and invite questions and answer questions. Class practice topic: A virtue in my friend.
- Session 7 The Academic English Speech 5: "Using Effective Visual Aides". Learn the use and production of various visual aids in academic 
presentations. Classroom Exercise Topic: Read "The Year of Twenty Years Is No Longer" and discuss the topic.
- Session 8 Academic English Lecture Unit 6, "Using Nonverbal Languages." Understand the importance and significance of body language in speech. Learn the expression of the proper body language. Practice exercises and discuss topics: revolution and youth.
- Session 9 Academic English writing. The structure and linguistic features of academic papers.
- Session 10 Academic English writing. Abstract, key words and document formats of academic papers, lectures and tutorials.
- Session 11 Academic English writing. Choosing a topic, learning the difference between a persuasive and expository research paper.
- Session 12 Academic English writing. The syllabus and argument structure of the academic papers are explained and counseled, outlining and the structure of paper.
- Session 13 Academic English writing. Help students to write the first draft of a paper

## Teaching methodology

Lectures, group discussion for problem solving, collaborative learning

## Assessment

- Midterm exam (40%)
Will include combination of numerical exercises and open-ended theoretical questions.
- Final written exam (60%)
Will include combination of numerical exercises and open-ended theoretical questions.

